1. If scores on an exam are normally distributed with mean 75 and standard
deviation 7, what score or higher do you need to be in the top 1% of scores?
2. Assume that IQ scores are normally distributed with mean 100 and standard
deviation 15. If we sample 30 IQs today and compute the average, and then we
sample 30 IQs tomorrow and compute that average, what is the probability that at
least one of those averages will be below 98?
3. IF 52% of the voters in a election will vote for candidate A in an upcoming
election, what is the probability that a random sample of 50 voters will result in 24
or fewer of them planning to vote for Candidate A?
4. Following is the joint probability distribution for the random variables X and Y.
.10 .12 .10
.05 .15 0
.08 .15 .25
a) Are X and Y independent? You must explain your answer to receive credit.
b) Compute the variance of X
5. If X is a continuous random variable with pdf fX(x)=2x for 0 ≤ x ≤ 1, what is the
expected value of 1/X?
6. If X and Y are independent random variables, where X is a continuous random
variable that has the Uniform Probability distribution between 4 and 7 and Y is a
random variable with pdf f(y) = 1/5 for 2 ≤ y ≤ 7,
a) What is the joint pdf of X and Y?
b) What is E(X + Y)?
7. Six sets of twins walk into a restaurant and are randomly seated at four tables
with three seats at each table. What is the expected number of tables that have a
matched pair of twins seated at the table?
1. If scores on an exam are normally distributed with mean 40 and standard
deviation 6, what score or lower puts you in the bottom 10% of scores?
2. Assume that scores on an exam are normally distributed with mean 80 and
standard deviation 6. If we sample 30 scores today and compute the average of
the 30 scores, and then we sample 30 scores tomorrow and compute that average
of those 30 scores, what is the probability that at least one of those averages will
be above 81?
3. If 65% of the population has antibodies for Covid-19, what is the probability that,
if we take a random sample of 40 people and test them for the antibodies, at least
27 of them will have the antibodies?
4. Following is the joint probability distribution for the random variables X and Y.
.10 .12 .10
.05 .15 0
.08 .15 .25
a) Are X and Y independent? You must explain your answer to receive credit.
b) What is the expected value of X if Y=2?
5. If X is a continuous random variable with pdf fX(x)=2x for 0 ≤ x ≤ 1, what is the
expected value of 1/X?
6. If X and Y are independent random variables, where X is a continuous random
variable that has the Uniform Probability distribution between 4 and 7 and Y is a
random variable with pdf f(y) = 1/5 for 2 ≤ y ≤ 7,
a) What is E(XY)?
b) What is the variance of X?
7. Twelve married couples are entered in a tournament. This group of 24 people is
randomly split into eight teams of three people each. What is the expected value
of the number of teams that have a married couple?7. Twelve married couples are entered in a tournament. This group of 24 people is
randomly split into eight teams of three people each. What is the expected value of the number of teams that have a married couple? 
1. A large shipment of electronic components is known to contain 5% defective
components. If you take a random sample of 200 components from the shipment,
what is the probability that the sample contains more than 14 defective
components?
2. Following is the joint probability distribution for the random variables X and Y.
.2 .1
.1 0
.4 .2
a) Are X and Y independent? Explain.
b) Find the probability distribution for Z, where Z=X+Y
3. A candy company claims that in their 1 pound bags of mixed nuts, the average
number of cashews per bag is 30, with a standard deviation of 3. You randomly
choose 36 bags today and 36 bags tomorrow and for each of the two days you
calculate the average number of cashews in the 36 bags.
What is the probability that both days’ sample averages are less than 29?
4. X and Y are independent random variables, where X has pdf
f(x)= ¼ for 1 ≤ x ≤ 5
and Y is a continuous random variable that is Uniformly distributed between 2
and 5.
a) What is E(Y3)?
b) What is E(XY)?
c) If you take a sample of each random variable, what is the probability that
they are both larger than 3?
5. You place two well-shuffled decks of cards next to each other and you
simultaneously turn over the top card from each deck see if they match each
other exactly....for instance if they are both the 9 of diamonds. Then you do the
same thing with the second cards from each deck, and so on for all 52 cards in
each deck. What is the expected number of times you will get a match, that is,
the two cards are exactly the same?
(You must show how you arrived at your answer.)
6. Imagine that you are standing in a particular place and you toss a fair coin. If it
comes up heads you step forward one foot, and if it comes up tails you step
backward one foot. Then, from your new location, you repeat the
experiment...and you do this for a total of 100 times (100 coin tosses with the
resultant step in the appropriate direction).
What is the probability that after the 100 tosses your location will be at most 10
feet from where you started?
1. If X is a continuous random variable with pdf f(x)= x/2 for 0 ≤ x ≤ 2, what is the expected value
of 1/X?
2. If test scores on a particular exam are known to be normally distributed with mean 40 and
standard deviation 2, what score or lower will put you in the bottom 5%?
3. Following is the joint probability distribution for the two random variables X and Y.
a) Are X and Y independent?
b) Find P(X>2)
c) If you are told that the Y value of a sample (x,y) pair is equal to 3, what is the probability
that X equals 4?
4. Scores on an exam are assumed to be normally distributed with mean 75 and standard
deviation 3. There are two sections of this class, and both took this same exam. Section A has 30
students and Section B has 25 students. What is the probability that the class averages in each
section are both greater than 77?
5. If 12% of a large shipment of components are known to be defective, what is the probability
that in a random sample of 100 components, more than 14 will be defective?5. If 12% of a large shipment of components are known to be defective, what is the probability
that in a random sample of 100 components, more than 14 will be defective?
6. If X is a continuous random variable that is uniformly distributed over the range 2 to 5 and Y is
a continuous random variable that is uniformly distributed over the range 3 to 7, what is the
probability that if you take a random sample value of X and a random sample value of Y, that the
y-value will be less than the x-value?
7. Use the Method of Indicator/Auxiliary Random Variables to solve the following problem:
A building has 10 floors above the basement. If 12 people get into an elevator at the basement,
and each chooses a floor at which to get out, independently of the others, at how many floors do
you expect the elevator to make a stop to let out one or more of theses 12 people?
1. 1f it is known that 52% of a population voted for Candidate A in a recent election, what is the
probability that in a random sample of 150 of these voters, fewer than 75 of them voted for
Candidate A?
2. If scores on an exam are Normally Distributed with a mean of 75 and a standard deviation of
5, what score or lower will put you in the bottom 4%?
3. If X is a random variable with pdf f(x) x/2; for 0=x=<2 , find:
a) E(X^3)
b) V(X)
4. Following is the joint probability distribution for the random variables X and Y.
   Y
X .1 .2
  .4  0
  .2 .1
a) Are X and Y independent?
b) find the probability distribution for the random variable Z, where Z= X+ Y
5. Scores on a test are assumed to be normally distributed with mean 80 and a standard deviation
of 6. 1f 30 students take the exam this year and 30 students take the exam next vear. what is the
probability that both of the two years' average scores are greater than 827
6. Use the Method of Indicator/Auxiliary Random Variables to solve the following problem:
Find the expected number of Aces in 7 cards dealt from a well-shuffled deck of 52 cards
containing 4 Aces.
7. If X 1s a continuous random variable with pdf f(x) = 1/3 for 0<x<3, and Y is a continuous random
variable that is Uniformly Distributed between 0 and 3, what is the probability that if we take
an observation on each of these two random variables, that the Y-value will be at least one larger
than the value of the X-value?
1. Over the past 20 years, final scores in a particular course have been normally
distributed with an average score of 80 and a standard deviation of 5. Assuming
that nothing about the course has changed, what is the probability that the
average score for both of the next two years’ classes (each of size 36 students)
will be less than 79?
2. If 2% of a large shipment of components are known to be defective, what is
the probability that a random sample of 1000 components will contain more than
30 defectives?
3. If scores on an exam are known to be Normally Distributed with mean 60 and
standard deviation 6, what score or lower will put the score in the bottom 2%?
4. X and Y are independent random variables, where X is a continuous random
variable uniformly distributed over the interval (1,3) and Y is a continuous random
variable uniformly distributed over the interval (0,3).
a) A sample (of size 1) of each random variable is taken. What is the
probability that both samples are greater than 1.5?
b) What is E(X2)?
c) What is E(XY)?
5. If there are 28 people in a room, what is the expected number of people who
discover that at least one other person in the room shares their birthday? (HINT:
use indicator (auxiliary) random variables)
6. X is a continuous random variable that is uniformly distributed between 0 and
1, and Y is a continuous random variable that is uniformly distributed between 0
and 3. A single random sample of each random variable is obtained. What is the
probability that the X-value is larger than the Y-value?
7. A stick of length 4 is broken at a uniformly chosen random location. What is the
expected length of the longer piece? (You must show your work to receive credit.)
1. If scores on a certain medical test are normally distributed with mean 36 and standard
deviation 4, what score (or lower) would place a score in the bottom 10% of scores?
2. Scores on a test are assumed to be normally distributed with mean 80 and standard deviation
6. If 30 students take the exam this year and 30 students take the exam next year, what is the
probability that the average on the exam for both years is greater than 82?
3. Usually 40% of the people invited to a particular party decide to actually attend the party. If
30 people are invited to the party this year, what is the probability that no more than 15 people
decide to attend this year?
4. If Y is a continuous random variable with pdf f(y)= 2y for 0≤y≤1,
a) find E(Y3)
b) find V(Y3)
5. Each day Ms. X plays a series of games in which at each play of the game she wins $1 with
probability .6 and loses $1 with probability .4 .
Her strategy for today is: Start playing, and stop playing if she wins the first game. If she loses
the first game, she will play one more game and then stop playing.
What is the expected value of her winnings with this strategy?
(Do not include the $ with your answer.)
6. Let X have density function f(x)= ½ for 0≤x≤2 and Y be a continuous random variable that is
Uniformly Distributed on the interval (0,1), and assume that X and Y are independent. Calculate
the probability P(X−Y>1).
7. Ten people are sitting in a circle. Each person tosses a fair coin once, and if the result of their
toss (Heads or Tails) matches the result of at least one of the two people sitting on either side of
them, then they win a prize of $10.What is the expected value (mathematical expectation) of the
number of people who win in a single play of this game? (Hint: You can use indicator/auxiliary
random variables to solve this problem.)
1. If IQ scores are normally distributed with mean 100 and standard deviation 15, what score or
higher do you need to be in the top 1% of IQ scores?
2. Again, if IQ scores are normally distributed with mean 100 and standard deviation 15: If we
sample 30 IQs today and compute the average, and then we sample 30 IQs tomorrow and compute
that average, what is the probability that both averages are less than 99?
3. It is known that about 70 percent of households filled out their 2020 US Census forms on time.
If we take a random sample of 40 households, what is the probability that fewer than 25 of these
households filled out their Census Form on time?
4. If X is a random variable with pdf f(x)=x/2 for 0≤x≤2, find:
a) E(X2)
b) V(X2)
5. If X and Y are independent random variables where X is a continuous random variable that is
uniformly distributed between 1 and 2, and Y is a continuous random variable with pdf
f(y)= 2y for 0 ≤y≤1, find E(XY).
6. Mary is playing a gambling game in which at each play of the game, the probability that she
wins is 0.52 and the probability that she loses is 0.48 .
Her strategy for today is: She will play a sequence of games, to a maximum of two games, until
she wins one game, and then she will stop playing. She starts off by betting $1 on the first
game; if she wins, she stops playing and is ahead by $1. If she loses the first game, she loses the
$1, and she bets $2 on the second game (either winning or losing $2 on this game), which is the
last game regardless of the outcome.
What is the expected value of Mary’s monetary outcome of this strategy?
7. Ten people are sitting in a circle. Each person tosses a fair coin once, and if the result of their
toss (Heads or Tails) matches the result of at least one of the two people sitting on either side of
them, then they win a prize of $10.What is the expected value (mathematical expectation) of the
number of people who win in a single play of this game? (Hint: You can use indicator/auxiliary
random variables to solve this problem.)
1. If scores on an exam are Normally Distributed with mean 70 and standard deviation 5,
a) what score is needed to be in the top 10% of scores?
b) if 30 students take the exam today, what is the probability that the average score of
the 30 students will be greater than 72?
2. The ideal size of a freshman class at a certain college is 150 students. The college, knowing
from past experience that on the average only 30 percent of those accepted for admission will
actually attend, uses a policy of accepting 450 students for admission. What is the probability
that more than 150 students will actually attend the college?2. The ideal size of a freshman class at a certain college is 150 students. The college, knowing
from past experience that on the average only 30 percent of those accepted for admission will
actually attend, uses a policy of accepting 450 students for admission. What is the probability
that more than 150 students will actually attend the college?
3. John is playing a gambling game in which at each play of the game he has a 40% chance of
winning and a 60% chance of losing. He decides to use the following strategy today: He will
play a sequence of games, to a maximum of three games, until he wins one game, and then he
will stop playing, and each time he loses, he will double the amount he bets on the next game.
He starts off by betting $1 on the first game, and for example, if he loses the first game he bets
$2 on the second game, and if he loses that game too, he bets $4 on the third game.
What is the expected value of John’s monetary outcome of this strategy?
4. X and Y are independent random variables where X is a continuous random variable with pdf
f(x)= 𝑥
2 for 0<x<2 and Y is uniformly distributed between 1 and 3. A single sample of each
random variable is obtained. Calculate the probability that both the X-value and the Y-value are
between 1 and 2.
5. If X is a random variable with pdf f(x) = 2x for 0<x<1,
a) what is E(X2)?
b) what is V(X2)?
6. A bowl contains 10 red balls and 10 black balls. You simultaneously remove two balls at a
time at random from the bowl until the bowl is empty. What is the expected number of times
that you pick two balls of the same color? Hint: You can use auxiliary (indicator) random
variables.
1. Following is the joint probability distribution for random variables X and Y.
a) Are X and Y independent variables? Explain how you arrived at your answer.
b) Find the probability distribution for the random variable Z, where Z= X+Y.
2. If the percentage of people who wear eyeglasses is 30%, what is the probability that in a
random sample of 150 people, more than 60 of them are wearing eyeglasses?
3. The weights of adult males in a certain population average 160 pounds with a standard
deviation of 20 pounds. What is the probability that two successive samples of the weights of 36
males will both have an average weight of less than 156 pounds?
4. Four professors give one course each. The courses have 15, 20,70, and 125 students. No
student takes more than one course. Let the random variable X be the number of students in a
randomly chosen class and Y be the number of of students in a class of a randomly chosen
student. Find E(X) and E(Y).4. Four professors give one course each. The courses have 15, 20,70, and 125 students. No
student takes more than one course. Let the random variable X be the number of students in a
randomly chosen class and Y be the number of of students in a class of a randomly chosen
student. Find E(X) and E(Y).
5. There are ten people in a room. The probability that each pair of people know each other is
0.10 . What is the expected number of people who don’t know anyone in the room? (Hint: You
can use auxiliary/indicator random variables to solve this problem.)
6. If f(x)= 𝑥
2 for 0<x<2 and Y is uniformly distributed between 0 and ½, calculate P(Y>X).
Assume X and Y are independent.
1. If it is known that 52% of a population own an Instant Pot, what is the probability that a
sample of 200 people will result in fewer than 100 people who own an Instant Pot?
2. If scores on an exam are distributed with an average score of 75 and a standard deviation of 5,
what is the probability that two successive samples of 36 scores will both have an average score
of less than 74?
3. If scores on an exam are distributed with an average score of 80 and a standard deviation of 4,
what score or lower would put a score in the lowest 5% of scores?
4. If X is a continuous random variable with f(x)= 𝑥
2 for 0<x<2, find
a) E( X2)
b) V(X2)
5. With a well-shuffled standard deck of 52 playing cards you turn the cards over one at a time,
going through the entire deck. What is expected value of the number of times that two adjacent
cards are of the same rank (two aces, two kings, etc. )? (Hint: You can use auxiliary/indicator
random variables to solve this problem.)
6. Each day Ms. X plays a series of games in which at each play of the game she wins $1 with
probability 18/38 and loses $1 with probability 20/38.
Her strategy for today is: Start playing, and stop playing if she wins the first game. If she loses
the first game, she will play one more game and then stop playing.
What is the expected value of her winnings with this strategy?
1. The number of raisins in a certain size box is assumed to be a normally distributed random
variable with mean number of raisins per box of 66 and with a standard deviation of 6. Samples
of 30 boxes are randomly chosen on two successive days, and the average number of raisins is
calculated for each of the two days. What is the probability that the average number of raisins
in both of the samples is greater than 67?
2. If 20 percent of residents in a certain city have no medical coverage, what is the probability
that more than 25 percent of a random sample of 50 residents have no medical coverage?
3. Scores for people on a particular medical test are assumed to be normally distributed with
mean 45 and variance 36. What score or lower would put a randomly chosen person in the
bottom 10% of scores?
4. If X is a continuous random variable that is Uniformly Distributed over the interval (1,4),
compute:
a) E(X3)
b) V(X3)
5. Let X have density function f(x)= ½ for 0<x<2 and Y be a continuous random variable that is
Uniformly Distributed on the interval (0,1), and assume that X and Y are independent. Calculate
the probability P(X−Y>1).
6. Suppose a game piece moves along a board according to the following rule: if the roll of a
die gives a 1 or a 2 then take two steps ahead, otherwise take three steps ahead. Approximate
the probability that after 120 rolls the piece has moved more than 315 steps.
1. If 52% of a city’s voting population favors Candidate A in an upcoming election, what is the
probability that in a random sample of 200 voters, fewer than 50% of the voters favor Candidate
A?
2. If the production line is operating properly, the fill weights of coffee filling 16-ounce coffee
cans on a coffee-packing line are distributed as a Normal Probability Distribution with a mean
weight of 16 ounces and standard deviation of 0.05 ounces. To monitor the proper operation of
the coffee-packing line, 4 cans are chosen at random from the production line every hour, the
weights of the coffee in the 4 cans are noted, and the average weight of the samples is computed.
If the coffee-packing line is operating properly, what is the probability that the next two sample
average weights will both be less than15.98 ounces?
3. If X is a continuous random variable that is uniformly distributed over the interval [0,1]
a) What is E(X3)?
b) What is V(X3)?
4. Ten people are sitting in a circle. Each person tosses a fair coin once, and if the result of their
toss matches the result of at least one of the two people sitting on either side of them, then they
win a prize of $10.What is expected value (mathematical expectation) of the total prize money
paid out in a single play of this game? (Hint: You can use indicator/auxiliary random variables
to solve this problem.)
5. X and Y are continuous random variables with X being uniformly distributed over [0,1] and Y
being uniformly distributed over [0,2]. If one sample observation is taken from each of these two
random variables, what is the probability that three times the x-value will be greater than the y-value?
1. 1f 10% of the population has red hair, what is the probability that in a random
sample of 100 people, the percentage of people with red hair will be between 9%
and 11%?
2. Over the past 20 years, final scores in a particular course have been normally
distributed with an average score of 80 and a standard deviation of 5. Assuming
that nothing about the course has changed, what is the probability that the average
score for both of the next two years’ classes (each of size 36 students) will be less
than 78?7
3. Following is the joint probability distribution for the random variables X and Y:
a) Are X and Y independent? Explain your answer.
b) Find the probability distribution for the random variable Z, where Z=X+Y
4. X is acontinuous random variable uniformly distributed over the interval (1,3)and Y
is a continuous random variable uniformly distributed over the interval {0,3).
a) A sample (of size 1) of each random variable is taken. What is the probability
that both samples are greater than 1.5 ?
b) What is E(X^2)?
c) Whatis E(XY)?
5. Ifthere are 28 people in a room, what is the expected number of people who
discover that at least one other person in the room shares their birthday? (HINT:
use indicator (auxiliary) random variables)
1. The amount of coffee packed in a 15-ounce can is known to be Normally Distributed with
mean 15.1 ounces and standard deviation 0.25 ounces. A random sample of 16 cans is chosen,
and the weight of each can is measured. What is the probability that the average weight of the
16 can is less than 15 ounces?
2. If scores on a certain medical test are normally distributed with mean 36 and standard
deviation 4, what score (or lower) would place a score in the bottom 10% of scores?2. If scores on a certain medical test are normally distributed with mean 36 and standard
deviation 4, what score (or lower) would place a score in the bottom 10% of scores?
3. Usually 40% of the people invited to a particular party decide to actually attend the party. If
30 people are invited to the party this year, what is the probability that no more than 15 people
decide to attend this year?
4.If X and Y are independent random variables with
f(x)= x
2 for 0<x<2
and g(y)= 2y 0<y<1
Compute: E(XY)
5. John has 3 brothers, named A, B, and C.
On any given day, brother A calls John with probability 0.3, brother B calls John with probability
0.4, and brother C calls John with probability 0.7. Let X be the number of brothers that call John
tomorrow.
Find the expected value of X.
Hint: express X as the sum of suitable indicator/auxiliary random variables.
1. Scores on a Final Exam in a particular course have been found over the years to be Normally
Distributed with mean 82 and standard deviation 6. This year 30 students are going to take the
final exam. What is the probability that this year’s class average on the Final Exam will be less
than 80?
2. If scores on a certain medical test are normally distributed with mean 36 and standard
deviation 4, what score (or lower) would place a score in the bottom 10% of scores?
3. It is known that about 70 percent of dogs who enter guide dog training programs are
successful. This year’s class of potential guide dogs consists of 40 dogs. What is the probability
that fewer than 25 dogs from this group are successful?
4. If X and Y are independent random variables with
f(x)= x
2 for 0<x<2
and g(y)= 2y 0<y<1
Compute: E(XY)
5. Jessica has a four-sided die (with the numbers 1 through 4 on it), a six-sided die (with the
numbers 1 through 6 on it), and a 12-sided die (with the numbers 1 through 12 on it). She rolls
each die once.
Let Z be the total number of fours showing on the three dice. Find the expected value of Z.
Hint: express Z as the sum of suitable indicator/auxiliary random variables.5. Jessica has a four-sided die (with the numbers 1 through 4 on it), a six-sided die (with the
numbers 1 through 6 on it), and a 12-sided die (with the numbers 1 through 12 on it). She rolls
each die once.
Let Z be the total number of fours showing on the three dice. Find the expected value of Z.
1. A wire-bonding system normally runs with the mean pull strength at 10 pounds. It is known
that the pull-strength measurements are normally distributed with a population standard
deviation of 1.5 pounds. Periodic samples of size 4 are taken from the process and the process
is said to be “out of control” if a sample mean is found to be less than 7.75 pounds. What is the
probability that a particular sample mean will be found to be “out of control” (less than 7.75
pounds) if:
a) the mean pull strength is still 10 pounds?
b) the mean pull strength is actually 9 pounds?
2. Two types of coins are produced at a factory: a fair coin, and a biased one that comes up heads
55 percent of the time. We have one of these coins but do not know whether it is a fair coin or a
biased one. In order to ascertain which type of coin we have, we shall perform the following
statistical test: We shall toss the coin 1000 times. If the coin lands on heads 525 or more times,
then we shall conclude that the coin is a biased coin; otherwise we shall conclude that the coin is
fair. If the coin is actually fair, what is the probability that we falsely conclude that the coin is a
biased one?
3. Each day Ms. X plays a series of games in which at each play of the game she wins $1 with
probability 18/38 and loses $1 with probability 20/38.
Her strategy for today is: Start playing, and stop playing if she wins the first game. If she loses
the first game, she will play one more game and then stop playing.
What is the expected value of her winnings with this strategy?
4. Consider the following joint probability distribution for the random variables X and Y:
P[ X=0, Y=0 ] = 1/6
P[ X=1, Y=0 ] = 1/12
P[ X=1, Y=1 ] = 1/6
P[ X=2, Y=0 ] = 1/12
P[ X=2, Y=1 ] = 1/3
P[ X=2, Y=2 ] = 1/6
Calculate the variance of X.
5. A hat contains 10 pieces of paper, each with a different person’s name on it. Person A
randomly selects 3 names out of the hat, after which the 3 names are returned to the hat and then
Person B randomly selects 3 names out of the hat. What is the expected number of names that
are selected by both Person A and Person B? Hint: Use auxiliary (indicator) random variables.
6. OPTIONAL PROBLEM, FOR EXTRA CREDIT (20 points!) no partial credit on this problem
X is a continuous random variable that is uniformly distributed between 0 and 1, and Y is a
continuous random variable that is uniformly distributed between 0 and 3. A single random
sample of each random variable is obtained. What is the probability that the X-value is larger
than the Y-value?
1. The ideal size for the entering first-year class at a particular college is 150 students. The
college knows from past experience that on the average only 30% of the students they accept will
actually decide to attend the college. Knowing this, the college Admissions Office decides to
send offers of admission to 450 students. Compute the probability that more than 150 accepted
students will actually decide to attend the college.
2. In a particular statistics course, the average final grade for the students in the class over the
past years has been 82, with a standard deviation of 5. What is the probability that this year’s
class (with 36 students in it) will have an average final grade of more than 84?
3. Consider the following joint probability distribution of the random variables X and Y:
P(X=0, Y=0) = 1/6
P(X=1, Y=0) = 1/12
P(X=1, Y=1) = 1/6
P(X=2, Y=0) = 1/12
P(X=2, Y=1) = 1/3
P(X=2, Y=2) = 1/6
Calculate the variance of X.
4. Each day Ms. X plays a series of games in which at each play of the game she wins $1 with
probability 18/38 and loses $1 with probability 20/38.
Her strategy for today is: Start playing, and stop playing if she wins the first game. If she loses
the first game, she will play one more game and then stop playing.
What is the expected value of her winnings with this strategy?
5. A hat contains 10 pieces of paper, each with a different person’s name on it. Person A
randomly selects 3 names out of the hat, after which the 3 names are returned to the hat and then
Person B randomly selects 3 names out of the hat. What is the expected number of names that
are selected by both Person A and Person B? Hint: Use auxiliary (indicator) random variables.
6. OPTIONAL PROBLEM, FOR EXTRA CREDIT (20 points!) no partial credit on this problem
X is a continuous random variable that is uniformly distributed between 0 and 1, and Y is a
continuous random variable that is uniformly distributed between 0 and 3. A single random
sample of each random variable is obtained. What is the probability that the X-value is larger
than the Y-value?