1. A thief plans to rob four banks. His town has six banks. He could rob a bank twice, but never
consecutively. In how many different ways can he select the four banks?
2. Assume that 5% of a large shipment of transistors are defective. You begin testing transistors
one by one. What is the probability that the second defective transistor is found at the fourth
transistor sampled?
3. A club has 25 members, 10 men and 15 women. A committee of three members is to be
chosen at random from the 25 members. What is the probability that the committee is composed
of three members of the same gender? (Do not compute out to a single numerical answer.)
4. John and Mary each toss a die twice. What is the probability that they both get the same
number of “fours”?
5. Ten persons in a room are wearing badges marked 1 through 10. Three persons are chosen at
random, and their badge number is noted.
a) What is the probability that the smallest badge number is 5?
b) What is the probability that the largest badge number is 5?
6. Two teams are playing a best-of-seven series...that is, the first team to win 4 games wins the
series, after which no further games are played. Assume that team A is slightly better than Team
B, with P(Team A wins a game against Team B)= 0.6 . If Team A has won three of the first four
games, what is the probability that Team A wins the series?
7. Instead of the numbers 1 through 6 on a typical die, a “strange” die has TWO faces with the
number 4 on them, and the other four faces are 1,2,3, and 6. Three dice are on the table, one is this
“strange” die, and the other two are normal dice with the faces 1 through 6.
One of these three dice is selected at random and tossed. What is the probability that the number
4 comes up?
8. A group of 6 people in a restaurant order cocktails: 2 people order Bloody Marys and the other
4 people order Manhattans. When the server returns with the 6 drinks, she randomly puts a drink
down in front of each person. What is the probability that all six people get the drink that they
ordered?
9. Consider the below network of components, with the component reliabilities (component
probability of working properly) written inside each component in the diagram.
Compute the reliability of the network, that is: the probability that A is successfully connected to
B.
1. If 2% of laboratory mice are albino, what is the probability of getting at least one albino
mouse in a random sample of 20 mice?
2. Assuming that 12% of the population is left-handed, and people are successively sampled
from this population until the second left-handed person is found. What is the probability that
the second left-handed person will be found at the fourth person sampled?
3. Albert and Ronaldo each toss a coin twice. What is the probability that Ronaldo gets more
Heads that Albert?
4. A cage consists of 15 mice, of which 5 are white, 5 are grey, and 5 are black. Three mice are
chosen at random from the 15 (without replacement, of course). What is the probability that all
three of these mice are the same color?
5. There are 10 men and 4 women in Room A and 4 men and 6 women in Room B. One of the
14 people in Room A is chosen at random and moved into Room B. Then a person is randomly
chosen from Room B. What is the probability that that randomly chosen person from Room B
is a woman?
6. A fair die is rolled six times. What is the probability of one or more “6”s and no “1”
occurring?
7. Eight balls are distributed at random among 11 cups. What is the probability that no cup
contains two or more balls?
1. If 15% of a population is left-handed, what is the probability of getting at least one left-
handed person in a random sample of 10 people from this population?
2. It is known that 3% of a large shipment of items are defective. Items are successively sampled
until the second defective item is found. What is the probability that the second defective will
be found at the fourth item sampled?
3. Maria and Susan each toss a die twice. What is the probability that Maria gets more even
numbers than Susan?
4. A room contains 6 Americans, 6 Englishmen, and 6 Germans. A committee of three is chosen
at random from this group of 18 people. What is the probability that all three people on the
committee are from the same country?
5. In a laboratory, there are two cages with mice in them, Cage A and Cage B. Cage A contains 4
grey mice and 5 white mice, and Cage B contains 7 grey mice and 5 white mice. A mouse is
randomly chosen from Cage A and moved into Cage B, after which a mouse is randomly chosen
from Cage B, which now contains 13 mice. What is the probability that the mouse randomly
chosen from Cage B is white?
6. An urn contains 5 balls, with the letters A,B,C,D, and E on them, respectively. Five balls are
chosen at random, WITH replacement. What is the probability that the letter C is chosen one
or more times, and the letter E is never chosen?
7. An elevator leaves the basement with 8 people and stops at each of the 11 floors in the
building. If it is equally likely that a passenger gets off at any of the 11 floors, what is the
probability that no two passengers get off at the same floor?
1. If 10% of the population has a certain characteristic, what is the probability that in a
random sample of ten people, at least one of them will have the characteristic?
2. In a small class of 12 students, each week for 5 weeks one of the students is chosen at random
to be the note-taker. What is the probability that no student is chosen to do this task
more than once in the 5 weeks?
3. From an urn containing 4 Black balls and 6 White balls, balls are selected WITH
replacement until a 3rd Black ball has been selected. What is the probability that this 3rd
Black ball is chosen on the 4th pick?
4. From a group of 7 men and 3 women, a committee of 3 people is chosen. What is the
probability that the 3 people selected for the committee are not all of the same sex?
DO NOT COMPUTE OUT TO A SINGLE NUMERICAL ANSWER.
5. Five cards are chosen at random from an ordinary deck of 52 (without replacement). What
is the probability that you get “four of a kind”, which means four cards of the same rank, and one
other card? Examples are : 4444Q or JJJJ7.
DO NOT COMPUTE OUT TO A SINGLE NUMERICAL ANSWER
6. Consider the below network of components, with the component reliabilities (component
Probability of working properly) written inside each component in the diagram.
Compute the reliability of the network, that is: the probability that A is successfully connected to
B.
7. A manufacturing process produces integrates circuit chips. Over the long run, the fraction of
bad chips produced by the process is about 20%. Thoroughly testing a chip to determine
whether it is good or bad is rather expensive, so a cheap test is used. All good chips pass the
cheap test, but so do 10% of the bad chips.
a) Given that a chip passes the cheap test, what is the probability that it is a good chip?
b) If a company using this manufacturing and testing process sells all the chips which pass
the cheap test, over the long run what percentage of the chips sold will be bad?7. A manufacturing process produces integrates circuit chips. Over the long run, the fraction of
bad chips produced by the process is about 20%. Thoroughly testing a chip to determine
whether it is good or bad is rather expensive, so a cheap test is used. All good chips pass the
cheap test, but so do 10% of the bad chips.
1. If it is estimated that each time you take an airplane flight, the probability that it will crash is
1 in a 1000, what is the probability that you will have at least one crash in your next 1000
flights?
2. Urn 1 has 5 Red balls and 3 Black balls. Urn 2 has 3 Red balls and 4 Black balls. You choose
one ball at random from Urn 1 and put it into Urn 2. Then you choose one ball at random from
Urn 2, which of course now has 8 balls in it. What is the probability that the ball you choose
from Urn 2 is Red?
3. Each of two persons tosses a fair coin twice. What is the probability that they each obtain
the same number of Heads in their two tosses?
4. You have 2 Red bowls, 2 Black bowls and 2 White bowls. You also have 6 balls, 2 Red, 2 Black,
and 2 White. You now randomly put the 6 balls into the bowls, with one ball per bowl. What is
the probability that every bowl has a ball of the same (matching) color?
5. An eyewitness to a mugging states that the assailant had red hair. Eyewitnesses generally
correctly identify the hair color of an assailant 90% of the time. If the city in which the assault
took place has about 5% red-headed people, what is the probability that the eyewitness
correctly identified the hair color of the assailant?
6. Product X is made with 25 precisely and properly placed staples. If any one or more of the
staples are not properly installed, then the Product X item is defective and needs to be
discarded. If about 20% of the Product X items turn out to be defective, what is the probability
that a random staple will be not properly installed?
1. John and Mary each toss a die twice. What is the probability that they both get the same
number of “fours”?
2. A die is tossed repeatedly until the second occurrence of a “five” comes up. What is the
probability that the second occurrence of a “five” is on the fourth toss?
3. Assuming that each of the 12 months has 30 days,
a) If 5 students are chosen at random, find the probability that at least two of them
were born in the same month
b) If Alice is one of the 5 students, find the probability that at least one of the other
students was born in the same month that she was
4. Suppose ½ % (.005) of the population has a disease D. There is a test to test for this disease.
A positive result is supposed to mean that you have the disease, but the test is not perfect. For
people WITH D, the test misses the diagnosis 2% of the time; that is, it reports a false negative.
For people WITHOUT D, the test incorrectly tells 3% of them that they have D; this is, it reports
a false positive.
Find the probability that a person chosen at random will test positive.
5. Six people are sitting at a table in a restaurant. Two of them order the house salad and the
other four order a Caesar salad. The waiter forgets who ordered what and randomly puts the
salads down in front of the six people. What is the probability that each person gets the correct
salad ?
6. John and Michael are playing a best-of-five series of games...that is, the first player to win
three games wins the series. John is a little bit better at the game than Michael; his probability
of winning in a single game is .60 . If they each win one of the first two games in a particular
series (so the series score is tied at 1-1), what is the probability that John wins the series?
1. You play a game in which you roll a die twice, and you win if the largest number rolled on the two rolls is a
one, two, three, or four.
What is the probability that you win this game?
2. What is the probability of getting at least one occurrence of a "3" in four rolls of a die?
3. A basket contains 4 apples, 3 pears, and 2 peaches.
a) From this basket, you select six pieces of fruit (without replacement). What is the probability that you get
two pieces of each kind of fruit?
b) If instead of the above selection procedure, you reach into the basket with both hands and simultaneously
grab six pieces of fruit, what is the probability that you get two pieces of each kind of fruit?
4. Assume that 12% of the population is left-handed. If we successively sample people to see if they are left-
handed or not, what is the probability that the second left-handed person will appear at the fourth person
sampled?
5. A basket consists of 7 balls, each of a different color (7 colors in all). You choose 4 balls at random WITH
REPLACEMENT. What is the probability that some color appears more than once?
6. An urn contains 5 Black balls and 5 Red balls. Three balls are chosen at random WITH REPLACEMENT. What is
the probability that the three balls chosen are not all the same color?
7. Someone rolls 2 dice out of your sight, and truthfully tells you that there was at least one occurrence of a "6".
What is the probability that a "double six" was rolled, that is, that both dice were a "6"?
8. Two families, one consisting of 2 people and one consisting of 4 people, go into a restaurant and give their hats
to the greeter for the greeter to hang them in a closet room. Both members of family A are wearing a green
Mickey Mouse hat, and all four members of Family B are wearing a red Mickey Mouse hat. When they leave the
restaurant, the greeter distributes the hats randomly to the six people. What is the probability that each person
gets the correct color hat?
9. Two boxes are placed in front of you. One box contains nine $1 bills and one $5 bill. The other box contains
two $1 bills and one $100 bill. You choose one of the boxes at random and then randomly choose two bills out of
the randomly chosen box. The two bills that you have chosen are both $1 bills.
a) What is the probability that you selected the box with the $100 bill?
b) Now you get to choose a third bill out of one of the two boxes. You have to decide whether to choose
the third bill from the same box that you just chose the two bills from, or whether to choose the third
bill from the other box, and you wish to make your choice so as to maximize the probability of picking
the $100 bill. Which box do you choose from which to choose your third bill? To get credit for this
part of the problem, you need to support your answer by calculating the probability of picking the
$100 bill for each choice of box.
1. A shipment of 10 items contains 2 defectives and 8 non-defectives. You choose two items at
random from the shipment (without replacement). What is the probability that you get exactly
one defective in the two items chosen?
2. Assume that 12% of the population is left-handed. We randomly select people until we get
two left-handed people. What is the probability that we find the second left-handed person at
the fourth person we sample?
3. Two teams are playing a best-of-seven series...that is, the first team to win 4 games wins the
series. Assume that team A is slightly better than Team B, with P(Team A wins a game against
Team B)= 0.6 .If Team A has won three of the first four games, what is the probability that Team
A wins the series?
4. A multiple-choice exam gives 5 choices per question. On 75% of the questions, you think
you know the answer, but you’re only right 80% of the time. On the other 25% of the
questions, you just guess an answer at random. a) What is the probability that you get an
arbitrary question right? b) If you do get a particular question right, what is the probability
that it was a lucky guess?
5. Given 4 married couples, 3 single men, and 5 single women, one man and one woman are
chosen at random from the group. Find the probability that a) both are married b) only one is
married
6. A fair die is rolled six times. What is the probability of one or more “6”s and no “1”
occurring?
7. Imagine a game of three players in which each has an equal chance of winning the game.
If the game is played four times, what is the probability that there is at least one player who
wins no games?
1. An urn contains 4 balls: 1 White, 1 Green, and 2 Red. Three balls are drawn with
replacement.
a) What is the probability that all three balls are the same color?
b) What is the probability that you do not get one of each color?
2. Roll a fair die 4 times. What is the probability that some number appears more than once?
3. A coin is tossed four times. What is the probability that the tosses result in 2 Heads, with the
second Head coming on the fourth toss?
4. Six people are sitting at a table in a restaurant. Two of them order the house salad and the
other four order a Caesar salad. The waiter forgets who ordered what and randomly puts the
salads down in front of the six people. What is the probability that each person gets the correct
salad ?
5. At a dance, there are three married couples. For the next dance, the wives are randomly
paired off with the men. What is the probability that each of the three men dances with a
woman who is not his wife? (You must justify your answer to receive credit.)
6. John and Michael are playing a best-of-five series of games...that is, the first player to win
three games wins the series. John is a lttle bit better at the game than Michael; his probability
of winning in a single game is .60 . If they each win one of the first two games in a particular
series (so the series score is tied at 1-1), what is the probability that John wins the series?
7. Consider three urns: Urn 1 contains two Green balls, Urn 2 contains two Yellow balls, and
Urn 3 contains one Green and one Yellow ball. An Urn is chosen at random and a ball is chosen
at random from that chosen urn; the chosen ball turns out to be Yellow. What is the
probability that Urn 3 was the chosen urn? (You must justify your answer to receive credit.)
1. An urn contains 5 red, 6 blue, and 8 green balls. If 3 balls are chosen from the urn without
replacement,
a) what is the probability that all 3 balls will be of the same color?
b) what is the probability that the balls are all different colors?
2. From an urn containing 6 balls numbered 1 through 6, you choose 4 balls, with replacement.
What is the probability that some number appears more than once?
3. A very large population contains 12% Red-headed people. If four people are chosen at
random from this population, what is the probability that there are two Red-headed people in
the group, with the second Red-headed person coming on the fourth pick?
4 Three men check their hats and the hats are later returned at random. What is the
probability that John is the only one to get his own hat? (You must justify your answer to receive
credit.)
5. Two evenly matched teams are playing a best-of-seven series...that is, the first team to win 4
games wins the series. If Team A has won three of the first four games, what is the probability
that Team A wins the series?
6. Suppose we have 3 cards identical in form except that both sides of the first card are red,
both sides of the second card are black, and the third card is colored red on one side and black
on the other side. The three cards are mixed up and one of them is chosen at random and put
on the table. If the upper side of the chosen card is red, what is the probability that the other
side is colored black? (You must justify your answer to receive credit.)
7. A well-shuffled standard deck of 52 cards is divided randomly into four piles of 13 cards
each. What is the probability that each pile contains exactly one Ace? (It is not necessary to
calculate out to a single numerical answer.)
1. A class of 50 students has 40 CS majors and 10 Math majors.
You select students at random (without replacement, of course) until you have selected a Math
major. What is the probability that it takes more than two selections to get that first Math major?
2. John and Mary each toss a fair coin twice. What is the probability that Mary gets more “Heads”
than John?
3. An urn contains 12 balls: four red, four black, and four green. Three balls are selected at random
without replacement. What is the probability that all three balls are the same color?
4. You have two dice, one normal one with the numbers 1 through 6 on the six faces, and the other
one with a 3 on three of the faces, and a 4 on the other three faces.
You choose a die at random from the two dice and toss it and a 4 comes up. What is the probability
that the die you selected was the one with all six numbers on it?4. You have two dice, one normal one with the numbers 1 through 6 on the six faces, and the other
one with a 3 on three of the faces, and a 4 on the other three faces.
You choose a die at random from the two dice and toss it and a 4 comes up. What is the probability
that the die you selected was the one with all six numbers on it?
5. Consider the below network of components, with the component reliabilities (component
probability of working properly) written inside each component in the diagram.
Compute the reliability of the network, that is: the probability that A is successfully connected to
B.
6. There are 8 floors in a building, each floor having 5 apartments, with one person living in each
apartment. Three of the tenants randomly meet in the lobby,
a) what is the probability that at least two of them live on the same floor?
b) if Mrs. Smith is one of the three people who meet, what is the probability that at least one of the
other people lives on the same floor that she does?
1. Players A and B play a game in which two fair dice are rolled. If the largest number
rolled in the two rolls is one, two, three, or four, Player A wins; otherwise, Player B wins.
What is the probability of Player A winning?
2. A well-shuffled standard deck of 52 cards is divided randomly into four piles of 13 cards
each. What is the probability that each pile contains exactly one Ace? (It is not necessary to
calculate out to a single numerical answer.)
3. There are six cups on the table, three red and three blue. You have six balls, three red
and three blue. You randomly distribute one ball into each cup. What is the probability that
each ball ends up in a cup of the same color?
4. J, P, and R are experienced darts players. The probability of J hitting a bullseye in a single
throw is 1/3, and this hitting probability is 1/5 for P, and ¼ for R. The three players each
throw one dart simultaneously. Two of the darts hit the bullseye, and one of the darts
misses the bullseye. What is the probability that J is one who missed? (Assume the hitting
events are independent of each other.)4. J, P, and R are experienced darts players. The probability of J hitting a bullseye in a single
throw is 1/3, and this hitting probability is 1/5 for P, and ¼ for R. The three players each
throw one dart simultaneously. Two of the darts hit the bullseye, and one of the darts
misses the bullseye. What is the probability that J is one who missed? (Assume the hitting
events are independent of each other.)
5. It is believed with probability 0.4 that a particular wrecked ship will be found in a
certain area in the ocean. A search in that area will find the wreck with probability 0.9 if it
is there. If the area is searched and no wreck is found, what is the probability now that the
wreck is in that area?
6. An urn contains five balls, with the letters A, B, C, D, and E on them, respectively. Five
balls are chosen at random, WITH replacement. What is the probability that the letter A is
chosen one or more times , and the letter E is never chosen?
1. Five people each choose two distinct (different) numbers at random from the numbers
1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7. What is the probability that at least two people will choose the same
two numbers? (It is not necessary to calculate out to a single numerical answer.)
2. A building has three floors. Each floor has four apartments and each apartment has one
resident. Three residents meet each other coincidentally in the entrance to the building.
What is the probability that these three residents live on different floors?
3. Five people are sitting at a table in a restaurant. Two of them order coffee and the other
three order tea. The waiter forgets who ordered what and randomly puts the drinks down
in front of the five people. What is the probability that each person gets the correct drink?
4. There are two bags in front of you. One bag has three white balls and one red ball. The
other has one white ball and three red balls. You choose one of the bags at random and
randomly pick one ball out of this bag. You see that the ball you picked is red. You then put
the red ball back in the bag and pick another ball at random out of that same bag. What is
the probability that the second ball you picked is red?
5. Every evening, two weather stations issue a weather forecast for the next day. The
weather forecasts of the two stations are independent of each other. On average, the
weather forecast of Station 1 is correct 90% of the time, irrespective of the weather type
forecast. This percentage is 80% for Station 2. On a given day, station 1 predicts sunny
weather for the next day, whereas Station 2 predicts rain. What is the probability that the
weather forecast for Station 1 will be correct?
6. A fair die is rolled six times. What is the probability of one or more “6”s and no “1”
occurring?
1. An urn contains 10 marbles labeled with the numbers 1 to 10. We sample 2 marbles without
replacement. What is the probability that the sample contains the marble labeled 1?
2. Roll a fair die 4 times. What is the probability that some number appears more than once?
3. In a town 15% of the population is blond, 25% of the population has blue eyes and 2% of the
population is blond with blue eyes. What is the probability that a randomly chosen individual
from the town is not blond and does not have blue eyes?
4. Two cards are dealt from an ordinary deck of 52 cards. (This means selection without
replacement.)
What is the probability that both cards are aces with one of them being the ace of spades?
5. Imagine a game of three players in which each player has an equal chance (1/3) of winning
the game. If the game is played four times, what is the probability that there is at least one
person who wins no games?
6. The Acme Insurance company has two types of customers, careful and reckless. A careful
customer has an accident during the year with probability 0.01 . A reckless customer has an
accident with probability 0.04 . It is known that 80% of the customers are careful and 20% are
reckless. Suppose a randomly chosen customer has an accident this year. What is the
probability that this customer is one of the careful customers?
1. If only 1 out of 10 of medical school applicants get accepted , what is the probability that in a
group of 20 applicants, at least one of them gets accepted?
2. A committee of 7 is to be chosen at random from 6 men, 7 women, and 8 children. What is
the probability that the committee contains exactly two men?
3. Two urns, labeled A and B, each contain 3 red balls and 3 black balls. John chooses two balls
without replacement from urn A and Mary chooses two balls with replacement from urn B.
What is the probability that they both choose the same number of red balls?3. Two urns, labeled A and B, each contain 3 red balls and 3 black balls. John chooses two balls
without replacement from urn A and Mary chooses two balls with replacement from urn B.
What is the probability that they both choose the same number of red balls?
4. A coin is tossed repeatedly until the second Head comes up. What is the probability that
the second occurrence of a Head is on the fourth toss?
5. Assuming that each of the 12 months has 30 days,
a) If 5 students are chosen at random, find the probability that at least two of them
were born in the same month.
b) If Alice is one of the 5 students, find the probability that at least one of the other
students was born in the same month that she was.
6. Suppose ½ % (.005) of the population has a disease D. There is a test to test for this disease.
A positive result is supposed to mean that you have the disease, but the test is not perfect. For
people WITH D, the test misses the diagnosis 2% of the time; that is, it reports a false negative.
For people WITHOUT D, the test incorrectly tells 3% of them that they have D; this is, it reports
a false positive.
Find the probability that a person chosen at random will test positive.
1. If about 1 in 10,000 people have a certain gene, what is the probability that at least 1
person in a group of 20,000 will have this gene?
2. Five tickets to a particular concert are distributed at random to a group of 18 people
consisting of 3 Americans, 7 Russians, and 8 Germans. What is the probability that only one of
the Germans gets a ticket?
3. Mr. X chooses two cards without replacement from an ordinary deck of 52 cards, after which
Ms. Y chooses two cards with replacement from a different ordinary deck of 52 cards. What is
the probability that they both get the same number of hearts in their two selections?3. Mr. X chooses two cards without replacement from an ordinary deck of 52 cards, after which
Ms. Y chooses two cards with replacement from a different ordinary deck of 52 cards. What is
the probability that they both get the same number of hearts in their two selections?
4. A die is tossed repeatedly until the second occurrence of a “five” comes up. What is the
probability that the second occurrence of a “five” is on the fourth toss?
5. Assuming that each of the 12 months has 30 days,
a) If 5 students are chosen at random, find the probability that at least two of them
were born in the same month
b) If Alice is one of the 5 students, find the probability that at least one of the other
students was born in the same month that she was
6. An insurance company believes that 30% of drivers are careless, and the probability that a
driver will have an accident in any one year is 0.4 for a careless driver and 0.2 for a careful
driver.
Find the probability that a driver will have an accident next year given that they have an
accident this year.6. An insurance company believes that 30% of drivers are careless, and the probability that a
driver will have an accident in any one year is 0.4 for a careless driver and 0.2 for a careful
driver.
Find the probability that a driver will have an accident next year given that they have an accident this year
1. If 2% of the population has red hair, what is the probability of finding at least one red-
headed person in a random sample of 25 people?
2. Cards are dealt (which means without replacement) from an ordinary deck of 52 until the
second spade appears. What is the probability that the second spade occurs on the tenth card
dealt?
3. Seven students are in a room, four males and three females, and one of the males is named
John. A committee of size four is to be randomly selected from this group such that it contains
two males and two females. What is the probability that John is selected to be on the
committee?
4. Robert chooses two cards without replacement from an ordinary deck of 52 cards, after
which Alice chooses two cards with replacement from a different ordinary deck of 52 cards.
What is the probability that they both get the same number of hearts in their two selections?
5. Bayes Theorem has sometimes been used in court cases to evaluate statistical evidence.
Consider the following problem:
After a robbery the thief jumped into a taxi and disappeared. An eyewitness on the crime scene
is telling the police that the cab is yellow. In order to make sure that this testimony is worth
something the assistant DA makes a Bayesian analysis of the situation. After some research she
comes up with the following information:
• In that particular city 80% of the taxis are black and 20% of the taxis are yellow.
• Eyewitnesses are not always reliable and from past experience it is expected that an
eyewitness is 80% accurate. That is, the witness will identify the color of a taxi accurately
(yellow or black) 8 out of 10 times.
Question: What is the probability that the witness has correctly identified the color of the taxi?
6. Imagine we randomly generate a six-digit number, that is: we make six draws with
replacement from the digits 0 through 9. (Yes, it is acceptable for the leading digit to be 0.)
a) What is probability of generating the number 999999?
b) What is the probability of generating the number 703482?
c) What is the probability of generating a sequence of six identical digits?
d) What is the probability of generating a sequence with no identical digits?
e) What is the probability of generating a sequence with exactly one repeating digit?
1. John and Mary each toss a die twice. What is the probability that they both get the same
number of “fours”?
2. From a deck containing the usual 52 cards find the probability that a randomly dealt five-card
poker hand (the same as choosing 5 cards at random without replacement) will have all 5 cards
be of the same suit. (Do not compute out to a single numerical answer.)
3. Assume that 12% of the population is left-handed. A random sample of people from this
population is tested for left-handedness. What is the probability that the second left-handed
person is found at the third person sampled?3. Assume that 12% of the population is left-handed. A random sample of people from this
population is tested for left-handedness. What is the probability that the second left-handed
person is found at the third person sampled?
4. Ten persons in a room are wearing badges marked 1 through 10. Three persons are chosen at
random, and their badge number is noted.
a) What is the probability that the smallest badge number is 5?
b) What is the probability that the largest badge number is 5?
5. John has 3 email accounts. 70% of all his email messages come to Account 1, 20% come to
Account 2, and 10% come to Account 3. The percentage of messages in each account that are
spam are 1% for Account 1, 2% for Account 2, and 3% for Account 3.
What is the probability that John’s next email message will be spam?
6. Consider the below network of components, with the component reliabilities (component
probability of working properly) written inside each component in the diagram. Compute the
reliability of the network, that is: the probability that A is successfully connected to B.6. Consider the below network of components, with the component reliabilities (component
probability of working properly) written inside each component in the diagram. Compute the reliability of the network, that is: the probability that A is successfully connected to B.
1. John and Mary each toss a die twice. What is the probability that they both get the same
number of “fours”?
2. If 12% of a population is left-handed, what is the probability of getting at least one left-handed
person in a random sample of 20 people?
3. It is known that 4% of a large shipment of items are defective. Items are successively chosen
at random from the shipment and tested. What is the probability that the second defective item is
found at the fourth item sampled?
4. If there are four people in a room, what is the probability that at least two of them have the
same birthday? (Assume a 365-day year.)
5. Instead of the numbers 1 through 6 on a typical die, a “strange” die has TWO faces with the
number 4 on them, and the other four faces are 1,2,3, and 6. Three dice are on the table, one is
this “strange” die, and the other two are normal dice with the faces 1 through 6.
One of these three dice is selected at random and tossed. What is the probability that the number
4 comes up?
6. An urn has 3 red balls, 4 black balls, and 5 green balls, and one of the 5 green balls has a blue
dot painted on it. Six balls are chosen at random from this urn. What is the probability that two
balls of each color are chosen, with one of the two green balls being the one with the blue dot?
1. If 70% of the population wears eyeglasses, what is the probability that in a group of 3
randomly selected people at least one of them will be wearing glasses?
2. A die is tossed until a “4” appears. What is the probability that it will take more than 3 tosses
to get that first “4”?
3. John is going to take three shots at a target. On any single shot, the probability that he
scores a hit is 0.9 .
What is the probability that John scores at least two hits in his three shots at the target?
4. If two dice are rolled, what is the probability that the sum of the two dice will be equal to
eight?
5. In a group of 12 students, four are male and eight are female (one of the eight females is
named Susan). If a committee of 5 students is selected at random, what is the probability that
the committee has three females and two males with Susan being one of the females?
6. A gambler has in his pocket a fair coin and a two-headed coin. He selects one of the coins at
random; when he flips it it comes up Heads.
a)What is the probability it is the fair coin?
b) Suppose he flips the same coin a second time and again it shows heads. What is now
the probability that it is the fair coin?
7. Consider a city where all the homeowners have both liability insurance coverage and
property damage coverage. This year 4% of the homeowners will file a liability claim and 10%
of the homeowners will file a property claim. 1% of the homeowners will file only a liability
claim (and not a property claim).
Calculate the probability that a randomly selected homeowner will not file a claim of either
type.7. Consider a city where all the homeowners have both liability insurance coverage and
property damage coverage. This year 4% of the homeowners will file a liability claim and 10%
of the homeowners will file a property claim. 1% of the homeowners will file only a liability
claim (and not a property claim).
Calculate the probability that a randomly selected homeowner will not file a claim of either type.
1. When Mary goes fishing for a day, the probability that she catches a fish is 0.4 (she never
catches more than one fish on a day because when she does catch a fish she goes home for the
day).
What is the probability that Mary catches at least 2 fish in the next 3 days of fishing?
2. A fair coin is tossed until a “Head” comes up. What is the probability that it takes more than
two tries to get that first “Head”?
3. If 12% of the population are left-handed, what is the probability that in a group of four
randomly chosen people, at least one of them will be left-handed?
4. If two dice are rolled, what is the probability that the sum of the two dice will be equal to
six?
5. In a group of 12 dogs in a kennel, four are brown and eight are black (one of the eight black
dogs is named Rover). If 5 dogs are selected at random to be trained as guide dogs, what is the
probability that the group of 5 dogs has three black dogs and two brown dogs with Rover being
one of the black dogs?
6. When Coin #1 is flipped, it comes up heads with probability ¼, and when Coin #2 is flipped, it
comes up heads with probability ¾. We choose one of these two coins at random and flip it
twice. If both flips come out Heads, what is the probability that Coin #2 was the coin that was
flipped?
7. Consider a city where all the homeowners have both liability insurance coverage and
property damage coverage. This year 4% of the homeowners will file a liability claim and 10%
of the homeowners will file a property claim. 1% of the homeowners will file only a liability
claim (and not a property claim).
Calculate the probability that a randomly selected homeowner will not file a claim of either
type.